In the next few videos, we're going to be building an atrial fibrillation classifier.
The data we're going to be using comes again from PhysioNet from
the computing in cardiology 2017 challenge datasets.
The device used in this datasets is the AliveCor device which is
a mobile EKG monitor that collects between 30 and 60 seconds of EKG data.
The dataset has four heart rhythms: normal sinus rhythm,
atrial fibrillation, other abnormal rhythms,
as well as EKG data that's too noisy to be classified.
So the original task for this challenge was to build
a four class classifier being able to distinguish
between these four different types of EKG data.
For our purposes, we've made this simpler by throwing out the noisy EKG data,
and combining the atrial fibrillation and alternative rhythm data into one class.
So we're going to build a two class classifier that distinguishes
normal sinus rhythm from all other abnormal rhythms, afib or otherwise.
We talked previously about the physiology of
atrial fibrillation and how we could use some of this physiology to build an algorithm.
The rest of this website has a lot of
really good information about more aspects of the physiology
that can be taken advantage of as well
as other approaches that have been tried throughout the literature.
At the end, we can see submissions to this challenge
including white paper write ups as well as
all the code that was used to build our classifier.
So exploring these submissions is a great resource
to learn about all kinds of algorithms for
mobile EKG data and various techniques
used in processing biomedical time series in general.
Now that we know where our data is coming from,
let's dive into it and do our data exploration.